---
title: euchre
coordinates: 0 -5
date: 2023-06-24
type: blog
navLinks:
  - 0 0 Home
  - 0 -1 Journal
  - 0 -4 Prev
  - 0 -6 Next
---

Busy couple of months. Went back to work, moved near family, and the kid is
almost 8 months old.

In honor of returning to the Midwest, here are the rules I documented a few
years ago for three-handed euchre:

# 3 handed Euchre Rules <span class="secondary-text">aka cutthroat euchre</span>

The game starts with all 3 players at 20 points and is played over a sequence of
rounds using a deck with 10,J,Q,K,A of every suit and the 9 of clubs. The goal
of the game is to be the first to get to 0 points.

Each round is played as follows. The dealer deals 4 hands of 5 cards (1 to each
player and 1 face down) and flips the remaining card face up. Starting left of
the dealer and moving clockwise, players will decide if they want **the dealer**
to pick it up and move the card into their hand and discard back down to 5
cards.

If a player chooses for the dealer to draw that card, that is now the trump suit
for the hand. If no player calls it up, the card is flipped over and you go
around the table in the same order picking one of the remaining 3 suits. The
dealer will be the last to pick and is required to pick a suit
<span class="secondary-text">(this is the screw the dealer variation in the
original Euchre, that I've always played with in cutthroat).</span>

Starting with the dealer and going clockwise, each player can decide if they
want to **stay** , **drop** , or **take the other hand** (if the dealer did not
take the extra hand). If they stay, they will play with their current hand. If
they drop, they will not take part in the round. If they take the other hand,
they must play the current round with the hand that was face down. Note that
they are playing with that hand sight unseen; they can't look ahead of time.

All remaining players will play the hand with standard Euchre rules
<span class="secondary-text">(Jack of the chosen trump suit is highest, Jack of
the opposite suit but same color is second highest, trump beats nontrump, high
beats low, etc).</span > Each trick taken is worth -1 point to your score.
Taking 0 tricks is worth +5 points. If you called a suit (or told the dealer to
pick the card up) you must take at least 3 tricks, or the hand is worth +5
points (and you get no points for the tricks you took).

**Scoring Example 1:** 3 players are playing in the first round; Ari dealt the
hand and Chad had Ari pick the 10 of clubs up. Ari and Greg both stayed and
ended up taking 1 trick each, Chad took 3 tricks. So Ari and Greg are both at 19
and Chad is at 17

**Scoring Example 2:** 1 player is playing in the first round. Ari and Chad both
dropped and Greg was the only one who stayed in. Greg takes all 5 tricks and is
at 15.

**Scoring Example 3:** 2 players are playing in the first round. Ari called a
suit, Chad stayed in, and Greg dropped. Ari only took 2 tricks, and Chad took
the remaining 3, so Ari is now at 25 and Chad is at 17.

There are 3 remaining special rules:

**9 of clubs round:** When the 9 of clubs is the face up card on the table, the
bidding is skipped. Nobody draws the 9 of clubs, nobody can switch hands, clubs
are immediately the trump suit, everybody must play, and everybody needs to take
1 trick to avoid getting 5 points (nobody is required to take 3 tricks)

**9 of clubs trump:** 9 of clubs is always the lowest trump card, no matter
which suit is trump.

**5 points rule:** At the start of the hand, if you're at 5 points or less, you
may no longer drop.
