---
title: board game roundup
coordinates: 2 -3
date: 2022-12-20
type: blog
navLinks:
  - 0 0 Home
  - 0 -1 Journal
  - 3 -3 Prev
  - 2 -4 Next
---

The last few decades have seen a
<span class="link" data-x="-2" data-y="0">board game</span> renaissance, with a
tremendous number of amazing games coming out. Even better, they have made their
way online where you can play against folks from around the world.

When I was younger, there wasn't the same variety of board games we have today,
especially in digital form. I remember learning a bunch of Risk strategy by
playing [TurboRisk](https://github.com/brian-scott-andrews/TurboRisk) bots and
then using that later to work my way up through the ranks of
[conquerclub.com](https://www.conquerclub.com/).

Now, with sites like [board game arena](https://boardgamearena.com/), there are
all sorts of games available to play! I'm currently playing seven different
games at seven virtual tables.

In the order of when the games were released, here they are:

2004 - **EKONOS.** A simple game with three parts: (A) a stock market where you
can buy and sell shares in stocks, (B) a Risk-style map where you can expand and
take over other companies, and (C) a deck of cards that determines which
companies you can expand each round.

2010 - **7 Wonders.** A card drafting game where you build up your civilization.
While taking simultaneous turns to draft (great for online games), you get
points based on your military, science, and more. Cards can only be drafted if
you have the right resources or have drafted prerequisite cards.

2013 - **Sushi Go!** Another drafting game with a similar playstyle to 7
Wonders. Instead of building a civilization (and needing to buy drafted cards),
you instead earn points based on the types and combinations of sushi you draft.

2015 - **Letter Tycoon.** What if you could buy patents for the letters of the
alphabet? In this game, you draw letters from a deck of cards to make words and
get bonuses based on the letter patents that you've bought.

2016 - **Kingdomino.** This is a game of drafting dominoes to build up a 5x5
grid. Points are earned based on contiguous types of land (lakes, forests, etc)
and the number of crowns contained on those tiles.

2017 - **Azul.** This is a game of drafting patterned ceramic tiles and using
them to build a wall, scoring points based on matching colors and building
rows/columns.

2019 - **Wingspan.** Tableau building game with birds. Probably my favorite new
board game of 2022.
